Doc 785 agents chains (#2079)
n8n-io/n8n-docs: docs/advanced-ai/examples/understand-chains.md

---
title: What is a chain in AI?
description: Understand chains in the context of AI. Learn about chains in n8n.
contentType: explanation
---

# What is a chain in AI?

> Chains bring together different components of AI (such as models and memory) to create a cohesive system. They set up a sequence of calls between the components.

Reviewer: I interpreted the text as describing chains as a general concept in AI that typically include memory support. But maybe we could clarify this sentence to make that clear?

> Chains bring together different components of AI (such as models and memory) to create a cohesive system. They set up a sequence of calls between the components.

Author: ```suggestion
Chains bring together different components of AI to create a cohesive system. They set up a sequence of calls between the components. These components can include models and memory (though note that in n8n chains can't use memory).
```

> Chains bring together different components of AI (such as models and memory) to create a cohesive system. They set up a sequence of calls between the components.

Author: Thanks! Aya's interpretation is correct, but I've clarified.

## Chains in n8n

n8n provides three chain nodes:

* [Basic LLM Chain](/integrations/builtin/cluster-nodes/root-nodes/n8n-nodes-langchain.chainllm/): use to interact with an LLM, without any additional components.

> * [Retrieval Q&A Chain](/integrations/builtin/cluster-nodes/root-nodes/n8n-nodes-langchain.chainretrievalqa/): can connect to a vector store using a retriever. Use this if you want to create a workflow that supports asking questions about specific documents.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth mentioning here that you can also connect Workflow Retriever to fetch context using workflow
